# [Git Tutorial](../README.md)

## [<small>2</small> Best practices](README.md)

### [<small>2.1</small> General](1-general.md)

#### <small>2.1.1</small> Writing good commit messages

Before describing the structure, let's start with an example commit message:
```
Fix something serious

The body should describe what was done and why, but not how.
It should not repeat the subject line - omit this description, if there
is nothing more to say.

Closes: #123
Co-Authored-By: Some Author <some-author@company.com>
```

This message consists of two sections.

First, a short *subject line*. Rules:
- **Imperative mood**
- Max 50 characters

The subject line should summarize the commit.
When skimming through commits, e.g. in Git log/history views,
you only see this line and not the body.
It's purpose is to give the reader a quick understanding
on the change this commit introduces.

Second, an optional *body*. Rules:
- Separated from the subject by an **empty line**
- Max 72 characters per line

The body may consist of:
- Optionally, a *more detailed description*.
  If the subject line not sufficiently communicate
  the change or its motivation, this is the place to do so.
  Still, the subject line should be self-contained,
  so the body should not be the continuation of a sentence
  that starts in the subject line.
- Optional *trailers* (meta data which is not part of Git)
  in a header-like format (`Key: Value` lines)

See [git.wiki.kernel.org » CommitMessageConventions](https://git.wiki.kernel.org/index.php/CommitMessageConventions)
for an (incomplete) list of possible trailers.

Please note that you can of course write less detailed messages while developing,
just make sure to refine them before pushing the commits or at least before bringing your branch into review.
You may append `WIP` (Work In Progress) in front of an unready commit message to not forget the refinement.

You can also join multiple commits into a single commit later,
so don't fear to commit as much as possible while working locally.
Some notes about squashing commit are covered later in [<small>2.2</small> Review strategies](2-review-strategies.md).

Further reading:
- [theserverside.com » How to write a Git commit message properly with examples](https://www.theserverside.com/video/Follow-these-git-commit-message-guidelines)

---
[back to General](1-general.md)
